TODO.md, before:

- Check aevitas ore perk, treasure shrine and mineralis ritual and match with our ores once we've finalized ores
- Delete and re-generate amulet enchantments config for astral sorcery to add the missing enchants (?)
- Look into where hooks fit into the tech tree and adjust accordingly
- The Beneath could gate certain magic mods - ex. Mana could be found only in the beneath, which requires a nether star to get to
- Adjust the beneath ore spawning to gate some stuff we want only after the nether, after we finalize ores of course
- HUD Features of dynamic surroundings might need to be disabled
- Look into paper-making and progressively better paper
- May need to remove UniDict and do the unification ourselves
- Consider removing snail spawn from familiar fauna since snails spawn in the betweenlands and we'd like to keep their spawns unique if possible
- Slime islands still too common
- Dragon roosts too common
- Larger structures from reccomplex causing crashes on chunk gen

- Disable PC barks after updating recipes
- Change bark work tool recipe to return BwM bark

- Add better easy flint recipe, sluice box can do a more efficient one (possible 2 gravel and a small chance or ore)

- Require resin or dung for tanning leather, no bark
- Add resin recipe to BWM cauldron
- Add PC bark recipe to BWM millstone ???

- Allow scouring leather with work tool ??

- Add back vanilla armor recipes ?? (could possibly hide them and require they be acquired through other means, or tinkers armor be used)

- Disable PC slats, except iron (?)
- Change BWM slats to use sticks, no reason to gate them behind the saw, or swap the two
- Change recipes to use BWM slats

- Change black bear loot table to not drop pelt, alternatively, change pelt recipe to give leather with work tool

- Match all boat recipes to bwm, except betweenlands

- Make beds require siding (encourage thatch beds early)
- Make gears require glue/slime any, this will put millstone after the cauldron, which will need a source of fire that lasts a while
- Add more raft recipe variants (twine, rope)

- Add mortar recipe for ground resin from bark, mortar recipe itself
- Add mill recipes for ground resin from bark
- Remove resin recipes using primalcore's mortar
- Replace harvestcraft mortar recipes with advanced mortar, add advanced recipe versions to other machines

- Remove light from aetherium ore, aetherworks
- Manasteel should require steel, or maybe soulforged steel or either
- Switch betweenlands items to use bauble slots, extra amulets should use inventory slots
- Extra Rails teleporting rail should require a magic mod item as a prerequisite
- Make wooden rails require treated wood and change the texture
- Gate the phoenix egg behind other magic mods
- Make nests require more sticks or plant fiber
- Fix wolves dropping two types of meat, favor wolf chop
- Ocelot spawns seem very rare, may need to fix
- GoG needs HEAVY loottable tweaking, spawnrate tuning as well as refining where and when the mobs spawn
- Ice and Fire Dragons - needs HEAVY config and balancing, possibly remove entirely
- Disable journeymap until a high-tech item is acquired AND is in the players inventory
- Disable waila until a tech item is acquired, allow neat until then (?)
- Disable horsepower flour and dough
- Add recipe for mowzie's earth charm to magic tree as side gig
- Restrict foliaath to groups of 1
- Worldgen of gorgon temples is a little weird
- Configure nature's compass and put it somewhere fairly early in the magic tech tree
- Need to heavily nerf adventure structure and mob mods so that those things are oddities as opposed to every two biomes
- Make the nuclear wasteland smaller or disable it - not sure if it's needed for something
- Possibly disable neat since we have waila, unless we want to stage waila
- Need to disable many structures from reccomplex - ONGOING
- Adjust achievements window - no more background fading when hovering
- Fish shouldn't spawn in mana
- Short grass should drop plant fiber
- It's weird that you can eat harvestcraft cotton
- Sariras allows you to rush smooth stone and just start smelting in the furnace - need to extend the early game a bit
- Rename primal hibachi to primal grill
- Recipe for stripped logs should also return bark
- Maybe remove all ore other then bog iron from the sariras, or allow regular iron ore to be smelted to bog iron
  - Then allow crude iron for the BWM cauldron
- Add Reborn Storage if it's not in already
- Catwalks missing footstep sounds
- Catwalk rendering issues
- Add Cravings mod and configure to be rare, add minimal benefits/drawbacks. Want it to be a nice little addition to the food side, not an intrusive thing
- Maybe instead of removing the vanilla hopper, just make it require a metal gear ?
- Disable colored bricks, adobe from better with addons
- Adjust obsidian boat recipe from netherex, or remove entirely
- Grimoire of Gaia - Achievement - Finish the Grimoire of Gaia
  - Make the grimoire an actual book that is used to summon mobs from the book (other then a select few we'll let spawn under other circumstances). By default the book would contain pictures of land and question marks and faded images of monsters. If you flip to that page, and use the book on the terrain as described, it'll summon the respective mob. Killing that mob would fill in the image and name of the mob. To get the achievement you'd have to finish the book by summoning and killing all the mobs within.
- Ice and Fire spawning needs _some_ kind of gating so that it can't be cheesed early on and seeing as the dragons are a little buggy
- Advanced Hook Launchers up for review, may be removed
- Adjust strainer base recipe so it's reasonably accessible early game
- Rename BwM Slats (?)
- Change wolf and ovis armor recipes to match vanilla
- Zinc sariras recipe should return thaumcraft brass
- Zinc ore shouldn't drop carbonate slack
- Viescraft only showing 1 airship type ?
- Loot needs to be tweaked HARD - abandoned mineshaft found with nuclearcraft parts
- Tombstone mod allows teleporting to grave - nerf heavily, or consider removing
- Animania animals cooked meat gives WAY too many buffs
- Tombstone magic recipes need heavy nerfs
- Nerf chest recipe to require saw, encourage basketcase baskets
- Add recipes to horse power grinder and press
- Reduce return on axe inventory planks and saw inventory planks recipes, both give 2 but saw also gives sawdust maybe, horse power chopping block should give 3
- In world chopping block should give 3
- Remove horse power manual grindstone, add all those recipes to stone mortar
- Embers structure spawnrate might be a tad high
- Alternate recipes for BwM wicker (allow any cordage?)
- Probably can remove extTweaker - not really as useful as I originally thought
- Weather2 mod could use some config
- Rename "Weather Item" to something more technology-oriented
- Strip down magneticraft to just the items and multiblocks we want
- Add clay bucket to kiln
- Make sure charcoal is still available through kiln
- Change recipe for glass slab to use better with addons diamond saw
- Thermal Foundation needs heavy config
- Thermal Dynamics recipes need looking at
- Still seeing armored mobs, need to fix that
- Go through ALL the configs and see if there's other things we can change

- Allow chisel to make marble variants for astral sorcery

- Test and configure tombstone mod, consider removing (most of what it adds is incredibly OP, items being lost is a fair punishment so long as mobs are balanced and gated properly)
- Test and adjust despawning spawners (since vanilla is infinite, leaving this at default is probably fine)

NOTES:
- Realistic drops has a dupe workaround that may cause problems with machines that check their drops before subtracting items. May need to disable if it has noticeable side effects.
- Stellar Sky - incompabitible with thaumcraft and astral sorcery and bloodmoon currently

CONSIDER ADDING:
- AI Improvements - if we need the performance
- Dynamic Trees - don't forget compat mods are separate
- Bibliocraft - probably not needed, would need a lot of config to remove some blocks and items
- BiomeTweakerCore - if we need more biome options
- Buildcraft - really only if we need another pipe option, none of the other machines appeal to me
- Caliper - when we need to optimize the pack
- Clef - just a fun mod, low priority
- Clumps - performance
- Cooking for Blockheads - would be great if we could require power/water for it to work
- Cyclic - a select few blocks and items are useful, but would need to be heavily configured
- Dark Utilities - same as above
- Dark Roleplay Medieval - probably don't need the deco blocks here
- Defiled Lands - would need to be heavily configured and rare
- Diet Hoppers - if for some reason we choose to keep vanilla hoppers
- Doomlike Dungeons - if we need more adventure worldgen
- BattleTowers - if we need more adventure worldgen
- Drones - if we can gate it behind reaching a certain tech-level
- Earthworks - low priority, would need some recipe changes
- Environmental Tech + ET Lunar - possible tech mod to add, not sure about it just yet, will need testing
- Extra Golems - we'd probably only want to keep 1 or 2, would need to test and configure
- Twilight Forest - Just not sure about this one atm. I feel like it needs a quality bump and to maybe be a complete mod before we include this
- Farming for Blockheads - if Harvestcraft's stores don't do what we need it to
- Felling - interesting enchant option
- Ferdinand's Flowers - very good looking, but low priority and will need a lot of recipe removal to get excess blocks out
- Forestry - could be cool, but would need major tweaking and needs testing in general
- Garden Stuff - more deco options that would need recipe tweaking
- Hunting Dimension - might just be an interesting one, would need to tweak recipes
- Immersive Craft - don't need the rock or stick worldgen, but some extra early game blocks might be nice
- Inspirations - would need heavy configuration, low priority, deco
- Railcraft - not updated for 1.12 yet
- Jurrasicraft - could be an interesting late game side-game
- Aquaculture - if fishing could be better
- More water mods in general - the ocean could be more interesting
- Landlust Furniture - another deco mod option, probably not needed
- Millenaire - probably not our style, and would take major balancing changes
- Minecolonies - probably not our style, and would take major balancing changes
- Mob Dismemberment - that gore though
- Mystic World - some more passive mob options, low priority, would need config
- Natura - mainly just for more door options and imps, we don't really want their trees to generate without heavy config, very low priority
- Animalium - more dangerous wildlife, low priority
- Primitive Mobs - a few more interesting mobs, and a few we'd need to disable
- Reliquary - if we need more magic stuff to fill in gaps, will need to research
- Roots - if we need more magic stuff to fill in gaps, will need to research
- Rustic - would have to disable quite a few overlapping features, but has great deco options, and a cool alchemy side-game
- Road Runner - if we need to change a few blocks movement speed modifiers
- Set Effect - if we need to add some effects to armor sets
- Ordinary Coins - is interesting, possibly make a press mold for the metal press ?
- Clothesline - mod to watch, could be interesting deco addition atm
- The Erebus - another dimension for potential exploration, but would need heavy config
- Natural Pledge - Looks pretty cool, definitely a possible inclusion, extends Botania a bit
- Water Control Extreme - May need to adjust water
- Tumbleweed - just a little more ambience
- Vampirism - might be a cool addition to the magic tree, but would need balancing and research
- Wild Crops - probably not needed with harvestcraft gardens
- Electroblob's Wizardry - another interesting spell mod, would need to be heavily balanced
- XNet and Ynot - interesting endgame tech
- Zombie Awareness - moar difficulty
- Worley's Caves - better cave generation
- Floocraft - adds a floo powder system with multiblock fireplaces, seems like a cool little magic tree addition
- Integrated Dynamics - might be worth a look
- Openblocks Elevator - actually a lot more balanced then I thought originally and looks like it provides a cool tech-y feel
- JAOPCA - might provide more compat between our mods that add ore
- Immersive Railroading - more interesting mid/late game tech geared towards travel
- The One Probe - maybe we use a very basic waila until the one probe is available ?
- /dank/null - seems interesting because we aren't using any of the utility item/block mods like cyclic, recipes would need adjusting
- Block Drops (JEI Addon) - seems like a good dev tool
- JustEnoughIDs - should fix any block id and item id issues we have if we're running into any, which we might be

Commit message:

More early game adjustments, notes

TODO.md, after:

- Check aevitas ore perk, treasure shrine and mineralis ritual and match with our ores once we've finalized ores
- Delete and re-generate amulet enchantments config for astral sorcery to add the missing enchants (?)
- Look into where hooks fit into the tech tree and adjust accordingly
- The Beneath could gate certain magic mods - ex. Mana could be found only in the beneath, which requires a nether star to get to
- Adjust the beneath ore spawning to gate some stuff we want only after the nether, after we finalize ores of course
- HUD Features of dynamic surroundings might need to be disabled
- Look into paper-making and progressively better paper
- May need to remove UniDict and do the unification ourselves
- Consider removing snail spawn from familiar fauna since snails spawn in the betweenlands and we'd like to keep their spawns unique if possible
- Slime islands still too common
- Dragon roosts too common
- Larger structures from reccomplex causing crashes on chunk gen
- Strainer base recipe shouldn't require iron, unless we wanna make this the advanced version and use primal's fish traps
- Add more bait options to strainer
- Disable primal fish trap entirely (?)
- If we keep primal fish trap, unify bait sources across it and fisherman's strainer
- Not a huge deal, but campfire mod places lit, would be good if we could light it to have it run
- Campfire mod cooks twice as fast as furnace, need to tweak that to be lower, contenttweaker ?
- Disable PC barks after updating recipes
- Change bark work tool recipe to return BwM bark

- Add better easy flint recipe, sluice box can do a more efficient one (possible 2 gravel and a small chance or ore)

- Require resin or dung for tanning leather, no bark
- Add resin recipe to BWM cauldron
- Add PC bark recipe to BWM millstone ???

- Allow scouring leather with work tool ??

- Add back vanilla armor recipes ?? (could possibly hide them and require they be acquired through other means, or tinkers armor be used)

- Disable PC slats, except iron (?)
- Change BWM slats to use sticks, no reason to gate them behind the saw, or swap the two
- Change recipes to use BWM slats

- Change black bear loot table to not drop pelt, alternatively, change pelt recipe to give leather with work tool

- Match all boat recipes to bwm, except betweenlands

- Make beds require siding (encourage thatch beds early)
- Make gears require glue/slime any, this will put millstone after the cauldron, which will need a source of fire that lasts a while
- Add more raft recipe variants (twine, rope)

- Add mortar recipe for ground resin from bark, mortar recipe itself
- Add mill recipes for ground resin from bark
- Remove resin recipes using primalcore's mortar
- Replace harvestcraft mortar recipes with advanced mortar, add advanced recipe versions to other machines

- Remove light from aetherium ore, aetherworks
- Manasteel should require steel, or maybe soulforged steel or either
- Switch betweenlands items to use bauble slots, extra amulets should use inventory slots
- Extra Rails teleporting rail should require a magic mod item as a prerequisite
- Make wooden rails require treated wood and change the texture
- Gate the phoenix egg behind other magic mods
- Make nests require more sticks or plant fiber
- Fix wolves dropping two types of meat, favor wolf chop
- Ocelot spawns seem very rare, may need to fix
- GoG needs HEAVY loottable tweaking, spawnrate tuning as well as refining where and when the mobs spawn
- Ice and Fire Dragons - needs HEAVY config and balancing, possibly remove entirely
- Disable journeymap until a high-tech item is acquired AND is in the players inventory
- Disable waila until a tech item is acquired, allow neat until then (?)
- Disable horsepower flour and dough
- Add recipe for mowzie's earth charm to magic tree as side gig
- Restrict foliaath to groups of 1
- Worldgen of gorgon temples is a little weird
- Configure nature's compass and put it somewhere fairly early in the magic tech tree
- Need to heavily nerf adventure structure and mob mods so that those things are oddities as opposed to every two biomes
- Make the nuclear wasteland smaller or disable it - not sure if it's needed for something
- Possibly disable neat since we have waila, unless we want to stage waila
- Need to disable many structures from reccomplex - ONGOING
- Adjust achievements window - no more background fading when hovering
- Fish shouldn't spawn in mana
- Short grass should drop plant fiber
- It's weird that you can eat harvestcraft cotton
- Sariras allows you to rush smooth stone and just start smelting in the furnace - need to extend the early game a bit
- Rename primal hibachi to primal grill
- Recipe for stripped logs should also return bark
- Maybe remove all ore other then bog iron from the sariras, or allow regular iron ore to be smelted to bog iron
  - Then allow crude iron for the BWM cauldron
- Add Reborn Storage if it's not in already
- Catwalks missing footstep sounds
- Catwalk rendering issues
- Add Cravings mod and configure to be rare, add minimal benefits/drawbacks. Want it to be a nice little addition to the food side, not an intrusive thing
- Maybe instead of removing the vanilla hopper, just make it require a metal gear ?
- Disable colored bricks, adobe from better with addons
- Adjust obsidian boat recipe from netherex, or remove entirely
- Grimoire of Gaia - Achievement - Finish the Grimoire of Gaia
  - Make the grimoire an actual book that is used to summon mobs from the book (other then a select few we'll let spawn under other circumstances). By default the book would contain pictures of land and question marks and faded images of monsters. If you flip to that page, and use the book on the terrain as described, it'll summon the respective mob. Killing that mob would fill in the image and name of the mob. To get the achievement you'd have to finish the book by summoning and killing all the mobs within.
- Ice and Fire spawning needs _some_ kind of gating so that it can't be cheesed early on and seeing as the dragons are a little buggy
- Advanced Hook Launchers up for review, may be removed
- Adjust strainer base recipe so it's reasonably accessible early game
- Rename BwM Slats (?)
- Change wolf and ovis armor recipes to match vanilla
- Zinc sariras recipe should return thaumcraft brass
- Zinc ore shouldn't drop carbonate slack
- Viescraft only showing 1 airship type ?
- Loot needs to be tweaked HARD - abandoned mineshaft found with nuclearcraft parts
- Tombstone mod allows teleporting to grave - nerf heavily, or consider removing
- Animania animals cooked meat gives WAY too many buffs
- Tombstone magic recipes need heavy nerfs
- Nerf chest recipe to require saw, encourage basketcase baskets
- Add recipes to horse power grinder and press
- Reduce return on axe inventory planks and saw inventory planks recipes, both give 2 but saw also gives sawdust maybe, horse power chopping block should give 3
- In world chopping block should give 3
- Remove horse power manual grindstone, add all those recipes to stone mortar
- Embers structure spawnrate might be a tad high
- Alternate recipes for BwM wicker (allow any cordage?)
- Probably can remove extTweaker - not really as useful as I originally thought
- Weather2 mod could use some config
- Rename "Weather Item" to something more technology-oriented
- Strip down magneticraft to just the items and multiblocks we want
- Add clay bucket to kiln
- Make sure charcoal is still available through kiln
- Change recipe for glass slab to use better with addons diamond saw
- Thermal Foundation needs heavy config
- Thermal Dynamics recipes need looking at
- Still seeing armored mobs, need to fix that
- Go through ALL the configs and see if there's other things we can change

- Allow chisel to make marble variants for astral sorcery

- Test and configure tombstone mod, consider removing (most of what it adds is incredibly OP, items being lost is a fair punishment so long as mobs are balanced and gated properly)
- Test and adjust despawning spawners (since vanilla is infinite, leaving this at default is probably fine)

NOTES:
- Realistic drops has a dupe workaround that may cause problems with machines that check their drops before subtracting items. May need to disable if it has noticeable side effects.
- Stellar Sky - incompabitible with thaumcraft and astral sorcery and bloodmoon currently

CONSIDER ADDING:
- AI Improvements - if we need the performance
- Dynamic Trees - don't forget compat mods are separate
- Bibliocraft - probably not needed, would need a lot of config to remove some blocks and items
- BiomeTweakerCore - if we need more biome options
- Buildcraft - really only if we need another pipe option, none of the other machines appeal to me
- Caliper - when we need to optimize the pack
- Clef - just a fun mod, low priority
- Clumps - performance
- Cooking for Blockheads - would be great if we could require power/water for it to work
- Cyclic - a select few blocks and items are useful, but would need to be heavily configured
- Dark Utilities - same as above
- Dark Roleplay Medieval - probably don't need the deco blocks here
- Defiled Lands - would need to be heavily configured and rare
- Diet Hoppers - if for some reason we choose to keep vanilla hoppers
- Doomlike Dungeons - if we need more adventure worldgen
- BattleTowers - if we need more adventure worldgen
- Drones - if we can gate it behind reaching a certain tech-level
- Earthworks - low priority, would need some recipe changes
- Environmental Tech + ET Lunar - possible tech mod to add, not sure about it just yet, will need testing
- Extra Golems - we'd probably only want to keep 1 or 2, would need to test and configure
- Twilight Forest - Just not sure about this one atm. I feel like it needs a quality bump and to maybe be a complete mod before we include this
- Farming for Blockheads - if Harvestcraft's stores don't do what we need it to
- Felling - interesting enchant option
- Ferdinand's Flowers - very good looking, but low priority and will need a lot of recipe removal to get excess blocks out
- Forestry - could be cool, but would need major tweaking and needs testing in general
- Garden Stuff - more deco options that would need recipe tweaking
- Hunting Dimension - might just be an interesting one, would need to tweak recipes
- Immersive Craft - don't need the rock or stick worldgen, but some extra early game blocks might be nice
- Inspirations - would need heavy configuration, low priority, deco
- Railcraft - not updated for 1.12 yet
- Jurrasicraft - could be an interesting late game side-game
- Aquaculture - if fishing could be better
- More water mods in general - the ocean could be more interesting
- Landlust Furniture - another deco mod option, probably not needed
- Millenaire - probably not our style, and would take major balancing changes
- Minecolonies - probably not our style, and would take major balancing changes
- Mob Dismemberment - that gore though
- Mystic World - some more passive mob options, low priority, would need config
- Natura - mainly just for more door options and imps, we don't really want their trees to generate without heavy config, very low priority
- Animalium - more dangerous wildlife, low priority
- Primitive Mobs - a few more interesting mobs, and a few we'd need to disable
- Reliquary - if we need more magic stuff to fill in gaps, will need to research
- Roots - if we need more magic stuff to fill in gaps, will need to research
- Rustic - would have to disable quite a few overlapping features, but has great deco options, and a cool alchemy side-game
- Road Runner - if we need to change a few blocks movement speed modifiers
- Set Effect - if we need to add some effects to armor sets
- Ordinary Coins - is interesting, possibly make a press mold for the metal press ?
- Clothesline - mod to watch, could be interesting deco addition atm
- The Erebus - another dimension for potential exploration, but would need heavy config
- Natural Pledge - Looks pretty cool, definitely a possible inclusion, extends Botania a bit
- Water Control Extreme - May need to adjust water
- Tumbleweed - just a little more ambience
- Vampirism - might be a cool addition to the magic tree, but would need balancing and research
- Wild Crops - probably not needed with harvestcraft gardens
- Electroblob's Wizardry - another interesting spell mod, would need to be heavily balanced
- XNet and Ynot - interesting endgame tech
- Zombie Awareness - moar difficulty
- Worley's Caves - better cave generation
- Floocraft - adds a floo powder system with multiblock fireplaces, seems like a cool little magic tree addition
- Integrated Dynamics - might be worth a look
- Openblocks Elevator - actually a lot more balanced then I thought originally and looks like it provides a cool tech-y feel
- JAOPCA - might provide more compat between our mods that add ore
- Immersive Railroading - more interesting mid/late game tech geared towards travel
- The One Probe - maybe we use a very basic waila until the one probe is available ?
- /dank/null - seems interesting because we aren't using any of the utility item/block mods like cyclic, recipes would need adjusting
- Block Drops (JEI Addon) - seems like a good dev tool
- JustEnoughIDs - should fix any block id and item id issues we have if we're running into any, which we might be
